# EarthquakePrediction
Earthquake prediction as a whole has proven to be an essentially impossible task. However, with modern computing power, machine learning methods, and a dramatically narrowed focus, perhaps some headway can be made into this important task. To this end, Los Alamos National Laboratory hosted a Kaggle competition to predict the onset of earthquakes given a seismic signal. <br><br>
The contest ended three months ago, but I thought this was a fascinating dataset to work with and I wanted to learn modern signal processing methods that many of the winning teams employed for this competition. <br><br>
My work is divided into several notebooks. The dataset is so large I had to use spark or dask simply to be able to peek at the data initially, and my initial EDA is in the "Sample EDA" notebook. Then I utilized my upgraded personal PC and a large EC2 instance to simultaneously go to work on EDA for the overall dataset in the "Feature Extraction" notebook. This is where the bulk of my work was done (at one point I had my laptop, pc, and 2 EC2 instances all working on segments of the data). 
<br><br>For the feature extraction, I relied heavily on BlueYonder Tech's tsfresh module. Finally, I perform modeling and submission for scoring in my "Modeling" notebook. Here I try many different machine learning models, and I perform extensive gridsearch and cross validation to eke out any improvement on my Mean Absolute Error possible. 
Feel free to contact me if you have any questions. I will also link to a blog soon.
